# The Conversation Design Workshop

Brings business and IT together to learn high-level principles and concepts of Conversation Design.

## What is it?
A 2 day highly engaging design-thinking workshop to help customers craft conversations that are natural and intuitive for users by adopting a clear conversation design process.

## Why?
This workshop is the opportunity for IT and business teams to first realise conversation can’t be an afterthought. On the contrary, it’s the roadmap of what’s possible and how users get there. The workshop allows the teams to walk out with a clear vision of conversation design and how to embrace this discipline to craft conversations that are natural and intuitive for users.

## What's the goal? 
The goal of this very interactive workshop is to share with business and IT stakeholders the methodology and the best design principles to design better conversational interfaces. It is structured to create momentum and accelerate the early stages of the design thinking process.
The deliverable will typically take the form of a ‘Google Cloud Sprint Board’ or modified business model canvas. This includes selected use cases, refined summary of the persona that represents customer’s brand and mission, target customer segments, sample dialogues, all collaboratively written by business and IT teams. The workshop also wants to share important techniques like designing for context sensitive to write conversations that are comfortable, frictionless, and user-centric. 

## Why is Generative AI in this workshop? 
When designing conversations we want to ensure that we are divergent when it comes to options and possibilities, and convergent when we are trying to help users solve a problem or make transactions. Responses generated by Large Language Models help create a persona and make experiences a bit more human. And when the user says something unxpected, LLMs can steer the conversation back to the successful path and reset the expectations about what is and isn't possible. 

## Table of contents 

Topic | Description
---|---
Introduction | Find out why conversation design is important and what is its ultimate goal.
Identify your key use cases | Learn when conversation is a good fit for a usecase. Then understand the differences between head intents and supplementals in the context of a user-agent dialogue.
Identify your users | Now focus on your users. Who are they? What are their goals? What’s their context?
Pick your persona | A persona forms an emotional connection with users. Learn how Generative AI can help gain user trust and make experiences a bit more human. 
Write sample dialogs | Sample dialogs give you a quick, low-fidelity sense of the "sound-and-feel" of the interaction you're designing.
Test and Iterate | Discover the Wizard of Oz prototyping.
Design for Context Sensitive Repair | Learn how to design your agent to prevent errors and how to handle common detours and unexpected user inputs with a bit of help from Large Language Models  

## Activities

Activity | Description
---|---
Activity 1 | Identify one use case where Conversational AI can enhance the user experience / think about what users might ask for
Activity 2 | Create your personas and journeys
Activity 3 | Create a sample dialog 
Activity 4 | Test the dialog 

## Resources

Use this deck to deliver the workshop to your customers.
<object data="https://conversation-design.web.app/static/conversation-design-workshop.pdf" >
<embed src="https://conversation-design.web.app/static/conversation-design-workshop.pdf">
    </embed>
</object>